Enough of the fury.
Let's get started with Mongo DB You know in a good place to get started is here.
Mongo D.B. dot.com you have two options to work with Hmong would you be one option would be to go to
software and then select a community server this would allow you to download Hmong would you be locally
to a machine if you click onto this option here then you should select the community server select your
operating system that goes in my case and then you can simply download it by clicking onto this button.
This is one option so to install it on your machine will use a different solution down and you can find
the solution actually right here difficult to get started for free or you can go to cloud and Atlas
Mongolia TV Atlas is a fully managed cloud service hosting your Mongol TB database and the great thing
is that the basic version of it can be used for free and this version is totally sufficient for the
purpose of this course for largescale scale applications you might have to select the paid version No
but well that's of course depending on your application type you want to use but for the course this
is perfect.
So what you can do then is who can click right here and start free and now you should enter your email
first name last name and password and then you can click right here to sign into melody Atlas or as
I do have an account already.
Item please select log in right here or sign it right there.
So you have plenty of options actually.
And then you should see this starting screen right here.
You can create new projects this menu.
I'm here in this refresh a project.
But if you start Hmong would you be at least the first time.
This is what you can see here and the first thing you have to do is you have to create a so-called cluster.
The cluster is basically your server in the cloud.
Running your Mongol TB database.
It's called a cluster because it could contain multiple servers to allow horizontal scaling but this
is not part of the free version and also not required for the course.
Therefore we can click Build a cluster.
Now select those start to cluster.
You can see it's for free.
That's the important thing.
You don't have some more advanced options but I guess it's totally fine.
So click on to create a cluster here and now you can select the cloud provider will go with a W S here
and then you only have to select well all services with the free tier available.
Hint here.
So we will use the server North American of Virginia.
You can select a cluster tier but all is important here free forever.
That doesn't sound too bad I would say we don't need a backup so this is also fine and you can find
a faster name we'll stick to cluster zero here and then we can click Create cluster.
And with that we are done with the first step.
As you can see this might take a few minutes but then this cluster is created.
And with that we can run our mortgage you beat database there are two more things you have to do though
because at the moment we only have the server but we need to access it and to get access to the server
we need to work on the security settings.
You can find these settings right here in the left part of the screen and let us first go to network
access here.
You have to whitelist an IP address.
This means you have to specify which machine which computer or which server in the end is allowed to
interact with the database.
Here I'm working with a local development environment.
Therefore I have to at my AP address here.
You have to add your IP address of course so click onto an IP address.
Now you can simply select at current IP address.
You can also allow access from anywhere.
That's not what I wanted.
I'd stick to my current IP address and very important the IP address might change from time to time.
Therefore in case you don't have data access.
After a while.
Make sure to check your IP address again and to update this IP whitelist here.
So now we can confirm this.
And also very important.
As I said at the moment this IP address is the IP from my local machine.
Once you deploy an application to a real server in the Internet you should provide the IP of the server.
Of course important is always that interaction between your back end and the database is set up correctly.
This can take a while but now my net access is active.
So my machine can interact with the database but there is another thing we have to configure and this
is database access meaning that we need to create a user which corresponding user credentials which
is then allowed to access the database.
So we go to database access and now create a new user here for the off indication will use password
and you should select a user with either the admin privileges or in our case we didn't write to any
database is also sufficient.
So we go with this one.
Let's give the user name and menu.
So that's my name and you can now either manually create the password or generate a secure password.
I can show you this one right here.
Of course these credentials are no longer valid at the time that you're watching this course of doesn't
make sense to copy paste these.
And now we can add user and with that we are actually done.
It just takes a few more seconds.
As you can see some changes that are still deployed.
But if you go back to our cluster.
Yeah.
As you can see it still takes a few seconds.
So let's wait until this process is finished and now it's done.
So with that we have of working Mongo TB cluster with the right access and a configured user.
What's missing of course is well a back in which allows us to interact with that database.
This will also help us to understand this cluster database collections and document structure.
I was referring to earlier in this module therefore in the next lecture it's time to set up a really
basic backend which would then allow us to connect with this database.